# Aria

Aria consists of two main components: Aria Autoformalizer Agent, which converts natural language math into formal Lean code, and AriaScorer, which evaluates the semantic consistency of the formalization.

# Aria Autoformalizer Agent

## Prerequisites

Before running the agent, you must configure your API credentials in configs/config.yaml.

All commands should be executed from the root directory of the `Aria` project.

## Running on a Single Data Entry

To process a single statement, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
python -m src.Agents.Flow.run_single
```

## Running on a Batch of Data

To process multiple statements from a `.jsonl` file, use the following command:

```bash
python -m src.Agents.Flow.run_batch data.jsonl
```

## Input File Format

The input .jsonl file must contain entries where each line is a JSON object. Each object must include the following two fields:

`"id"`: A unique identifier for the entry, used for labeling purposes.

`"nl_statement"`: The natural language statement to be formalized.

# AriaScorer

## Prerequisites

Before running the agent, you must configure your API credentials in config.py.

All commands should be executed from the root directory of the `AriaScorer` project.

## Simple Inference

Our test environment use Gemini-2.5-Pro, and set `THRESHOLD_PASS` at 0.9.You can use the following script to run AriaScorer on your own dataset by changing the input and output paths. You can also change `THRESHOLD_PASS` according to your own preference. The script supports parallel processing to significantly speed up scoring. Use the `--workers` argument to specify the number of parallel threads. If you omit the `--workers` argument, it will use a default value of 10.

```bash
python run_lean_scorer.py --workers 20 example/test.json example/test_result
```

This will generate two files:

+ `example/test_result.json`: A concise result file containing the original input data along with the final scores.
+ `example/test_result_full_output.txt`: A detailed file containing all intermediate outputs from the scoring process.

## Input File Format

The input file must be a standard JSON file containing a list of JSON objects. Each object in the list represents an entry to be scored. Each object must include the following two key fields:

`"informal_statement"`: The natural language statement, which is the informal description of the mathematical theorem to be formalized.

`"agent_output"`: The Lean code generated by the autoformalizer, which is the formal statement to be evaluated.

Additionally, it is recommended to include an `"id"` field for tracking purposes.s
